What is a data sheet?

These are data sheets.
Data are facts.
Data sheets help you remember what happened.
You can use words.
You can use numbers.
You can use pictures.
You can use all of these.
Then you can think about what you learned.


What is a data sheet?

Data are facts you gather as you do a science experiment. You don't have to remember all the data. Just use a data sheet. You can write words and numbers. You can even use pictures.

Data sheets can help you answer a science question. If you got water on your homework, what would be the fastest way to dry it? Do an experiment to find out! Hang wet paper towels in normal and warm air. Also hang a wet paper towel in moving air and lay one on ice.

The middle data sheet below lists four tests. You collect two kinds of data for each test. This data sheet makes it easy to keep track of your results. It will also help you think about why one paper towel dried first. What a great tool!


What is a data sheet?

Data are facts you gather as you find out what happens in a science experiment. You don't have to remember all the data. Just use a data sheet. You can use numbers, words, or pictures.

Data sheets can help you answer a science question. You may have noticed shadows change during the day. How does light change the shape and size of the shadow? You could shine a flashlight on an object from different heights and angles to find out.

Data sheets may use tables, charts, graphs, diagrams, and sketches. They help organize the results from an experiment. How would you write down your observations from the shadows experiment? The data sheet has a table with six tests along the left side. After each experiment, you would draw the shadow and record the shadows length and width.

Data sheets also help you analyze your data. What happens to the shadow when the light is further from the object? What happens to the shadow when the angle of the light is increased? These questions help you interpret the data. Then you can draw conclusions and answer the research question.

