What is a hypothesis?

"If I put an ice cube in the sun l, it will melt."

This is a good guess. We call it a hypothesis.

Ask a science question. Try to guess what will happen. Then tested to find out if you are right.


What is a hypothesis?

A hypothesis is a statement that predicts an experiment's outcome based on what you already know. For example: "if I leave an ice cube on a plate for an hour, then it will melt because it will warm up."

A good hypothesis…
Is written as a statement.
Predicts how the experiment will turn out.
Is testable, meaning you can observe and measure the results.
Explains why the results might happen and explains the relationship between variables.
Is based on what you already know.

This hypothesis has all of the elements: "if an ice cube is left at a temperature of 22°C, it will fully melt in under 30 minutes because ice melts when air is warm.

Hypothesis with these five elements is needed for good science.


What is a hypothesis?

Hypothesis is more than a "good guess". It is a statement the projects and experiments outcome based on what you already know. A hypothesis is also testable.

A good hypothesis has these five elements:
A hypothesis is always written as a statement and never as a question. Here is an example: "if I leave an ice cube on a plate for an hour, then it will melt."
A Hypothesis predicts how the experiment will turn out before you know the results.
A hypothesis is testable. "If I leave an ice cube on a plate for a half an hour, then it will melt completely." This hypothesis is testable, observable, and miserable.
I hypothesis explains the results and the relationship between variables. The following hypothesis includes the variables temperature and time: "if an ice cube is left at a temperature of 22°C, it will melt completely in less than half an hour, because he can turn a solid into a liquid."
A hypothesis is based on observations and knowledge.

A Hypothesis with these five elements is the foundation for good science.