Magnets

What is a magnet? How do magnets work?

Magnets can only pull metal. Which things can a magnet pull?

Magnets also push or pull other magnets.

One end of a magnet is the north pole. The other end is the south pole.

A north pole and a south pole pull together.

Two north poles push each other away. 

To south poles also push each other away.

Magnets can move things without touching them!

These big motors have magnets inside. When magnets move, they can make electricity.

Electricity pushes magnets inside motors. All these things use a motor.

Did a magnet break? Don't worry. Both parts work!

Magnets can do so much!


The big idea

Magnets attract certain metals. They have two poles that attract or repel the poles of other magnets. Lines of force form a powerful magnetic field around a magnet. Magnets come in many shapes and sizes, and are used for many purposes. Without magnets, our lives would be quite different. Magnets help generate electricity, are used in motors, and can be found in a variety of common items. Magnets are used in medicine, industry, transportation, and other important fields. Magnets behave in predictable ways, making them reliable and valuable tools.


Earths changing magnetic poles

Earth is a very big magnet. It has north and south magnetic poles.

Magnetic poles move around. They can even change places!

A compass helps you find your way. It works by using Earth's magnetic poles to help you find north.

Metal inside earth makes it act like a big magnet. The magnetic poles are near the real north and south poles.


Earth as a magnet

The needle of a magnetic compass always points north. That's because Earth has a magnetic field. It's a really big magnet! Like any magnet, Earth also has poles. It has a north magnetic pole and a south magnetic pole.

Earths magnetic field comes from inside the planet. Way down, it's really hot. It's so hot that iron is a liquid, and it is always moving. The liquid iron contains electrical charges. The motion of the iron produces a magnetic field.

Earths magnetic field is very helpful. It protects us from particles coming from the sun. When those particles strike earths magnetic field, they move towards the pools. But the particles are moving very fast. So most of them sweep past the planet.

Earths magnetic poles move and can even switch places. This switch last happened about 780,000 years ago.

Earths magnetic field is getting weaker. That may mean that the poles are starting to switch.


