Observations and inferences

Observations are information we get from our senses: sight, smell, hearing, taste, and touch.

You use your eyes to see the wet grass.

Why is the grass wet?

Inferences explain our observations. Maybe it rains. Maybe a sprinkler was nearby.

We make observations and inferences all the time!



Observations versus inferences

Observations or information we get using our five senses. Scientists use sight, smell, hearing, taste, and touch to learn about our world.

Inferences are important in science, too. They are explanations for observations you make. Inferences are based on your experiences and what you know.

The grass is wet. This is an observation about the picture.

The grass is wet because it rained. This is an inference.

The grass is wet from morning dew is another inference. What if you looked again and saw sprinkler in the photo? You might infer that water from the sprinkler got the grass wet.

We make observations and inferences to describe and explain our world.



Observations versus inferences

Observation is the gathering of information through the five senses. Scientists use sight, smell, cheering, taste, and touch to learn about our world.

Qualitative and quantitative are two kinds of observations. Qualitative observations use adjectives to describe what you observe. The water is cold is a qualitative observation. Quantitative observations use numbers to measure what you observe. The water is 6°C is a quantitative observation. In science experiments, quantitative observations can be accurately compared.

Inferences are important in science, too. An inference is an explanation for an observation you make. Inferences are based on your past experiences and prior knowledge.

And observation of this picture is: the grass is wet. An inference is: the grass is wet because it rained. Another inference is that the grass is wet from morning dew. Inferences often change when you observations are made. Suppose you looked again at the photo and saw sprinkler. You might infer that the grass is wet from the sprinkler.

Observations and inferences work together. They help us describe and explain the world around us.